Add UTF-8 support in metric and label names (#689)
prometheus/pushgateway: README.md

  
      /metrics/job/titan/name@base64/zqDPgc6_zrzOt864zrXPjc-C

### UTF-8 support

> UTF-8 characters in metric and label names are supported by enabling
> the `--push.enable-utf8-names` flag. The syntax is as follows:
> 
>     {"some.metric", "foo.bar"="baz"}
> 
> For UTF-8 label names defined in the URL path, [an escaping syntax](https://github.com/prometheus/proposals/blob/main/proposals/2023-08-21-utf8.md#text-escaping) is used.

Reviewer: I would not explain the syntax of the text exposition format here. (It also doesn't cover protobuf.)

With some wordsmithing included, I would propose the following:

```suggestion
Newer versions of the Prometheus exposition formats (text and protobuf)
support the full UTF-8 character set in metric and label names. The
Pushgateway only accepts special characters in names if the command line
flag `--push.enable-utf8-names` is set.

To allow special characters in label names that are part of the URL path, the flag also enables a 
[specific encoding mechanism](https://github.com/prometheus/proposals/blob/main/proposals/2023-08-21-utf8.md#text-escaping). This is similar to the base64 encoding for label _values_ described above,
but works differently in detail for technical and historical reasons. As before, client libraries
should usually take care of the encoding. It works as follows:
```

> * Prefix the string with `U__`.
> * All non-valid characters (i.e. characters other than letters, numbers, and underscores) will be encoded as underscores surrounding the Unicode value, like `_1F60A_`.
> * All pre-existing underscores will become doubled: `__`.
> * If a string should start with "U__" already, it will need to be escaped: `U___55_____`. (That's `U__` + `_55_` (for `U`) + `__` + `__`).

Reviewer: Let's stay consistent with regard to the form. You start with an imperative form and then use future tense.

Here my suggestion with a few things added:

```suggestion
* A label name containing encoded characters starts with `U__`.
* All non-standard characters (i.e. characters other than letters, numbers, and underscores) are encoded as underscores surrounding their Unicode value, like `_1F60A_`.
* All pre-existing underscores are encoded as a double-underscore: `__`.
* If a label name starts with `U__` already, these characters have to be encoded as well, resulting in `U___55_____`. (That's `U__` + `_55_` (for `U`) + `__` + `__`).
* A label name starting with `U__` in it's encoded form, but containing invalid sequences (e.g. `U__in_xxx_valid`) is left unchanged.
```

> For example, the label `"foo.bar"="baz"` would be escaped like: 

Reviewer: Let's better use "encoded" rather than "escaped" to only use one word throughout this file.

  
    /metrics/job/example/U__foo_2e_bar/baz

> This escaping is compatible with the base64 encoding for label values:

Reviewer: escaping → encoding, see above.

    /metrics/job/example/U__foo_2e_bar@base64/YmF6

> 

Reviewer: Let's add something about the one edge case, e.g.

Note that this method has an unlikely edge case that is not handled properly: A pusher unaware of the encoding mechanism might use a label name that is _also_ a valid encoded version of another label name. E.g. if a pusher intends to use the label name `U__foo_2e_bar`, but doesn't encode it as `U___55_____foo__2e__bar`, the Pushgateway will decode `U__foo_2e_bar` to `foo.bar`. This is the main reason why the decoding is opt-in via the `--push.enable-utf8-names` flag.
